*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 76 ***




ADVENTURES
OF
HUCKLEBERRY FINN

(Tom Sawyer’s Comrade)

By Mark Twain




CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.
Civilizing Huck.—Miss Watson.—Tom Sawyer Waits.

CHAPTER II.
The Boys Escape Jim.—Torn Sawyer’s Gang.—Deep-laid Plans.

CHAPTER III.
A Good Going-over.—Grace Triumphant.—“One of Tom Sawyers’s Lies”.

CHAPTER IV.
Huck and the Judge.—Superstition.

CHAPTER V.
Huck’s Father.—The Fond Parent.—Reform.

CHAPTER VI.
He Went for Judge Thatcher.—Huck Decided to Leave.—Political
Economy.—Thrashing Around.

CHAPTER VII.
Laying for Him.—Locked in the Cabin.—Sinking the Body.—Resting.

CHAPTER VIII.
Sleeping in the Woods.—Raising the Dead.—Exploring the Island.—Finding
Jim.—Jim’s Escape.—Signs.—Balum.

CHAPTER IX.
The Cave.—The Floating House.

CHAPTER X.
The Find.—Old Hank Bunker.—In Disguise.

CHAPTER XI.
Huck and the Woman.—The Search.—Prevarication.—Going to Goshen.

CHAPTER XII.
Slow Navigation.—Borrowing Things.—Boarding the Wreck.—The
Plotters.—Hunting for the Boat.

CHAPTER XIII.
Escaping from the Wreck.—The Watchman.—Sinking.

CHAPTER XIV.
A General Good Time.—The Harem.—French.

CHAPTER XV.
Huck Loses the Raft.—In the Fog.—Huck Finds the Raft.—Trash.

CHAPTER XVI.
Expectation.—A White Lie.—Floating Currency.—Running by Cairo.—Swimming
Ashore.

CHAPTER XVII.
An Evening Call.—The Farm in Arkansaw.—Interior Decorations.—Stephen
Dowling Bots.—Poetical Effusions.

CHAPTER XVIII.
Col. Grangerford.—Aristocracy.—Feuds.—The Testament.—Recovering the
Raft.—The Wood—pile.—Pork and Cabbage.

CHAPTER XIX.
Tying Up Day—times.—An Astronomical Theory.—Running a Temperance
Revival.—The Duke of Bridgewater.—The Troubles of Royalty.

CHAPTER XX.
Huck Explains.—Laying Out a Campaign.—Working the Camp—meeting.—A
Pirate at the Camp—meeting.—The Duke as a Printer.

CHAPTER XXI.
Sword Exercise.—Hamlet’s Soliloquy.—They Loafed Around Town.—A Lazy
Town.—Old Boggs.—Dead.

CHAPTER XXII.
Sherburn.—Attending the Circus.—Intoxication in the Ring.—The Thrilling
Tragedy.

CHAPTER XXIII.
Sold.—Royal Comparisons.—Jim Gets Home-sick.

CHAPTER XXIV.
Jim in Royal Robes.—They Take a Passenger.—Getting Information.—Family
Grief.

CHAPTER XXV.
Is It Them?—Singing the “Doxologer.”—Awful Square—Funeral Orgies.—A Bad
Investment .

CHAPTER XXVI.
A Pious King.—The King’s Clergy.—She Asked His Pardon.—Hiding in the
Room.—Huck Takes the Money.

CHAPTER XXVII.
The Funeral.—Satisfying Curiosity.—Suspicious of Huck,—Quick Sales and
Small.

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Trip to England.—“The Brute!”—Mary Jane Decides to Leave.—Huck
Parting with Mary Jane.—Mumps.—The Opposition Line.

CHAPTER XXIX.
Contested Relationship.—The King Explains the Loss.—A Question of
Handwriting.—Digging up the Corpse.—Huck Escapes.

CHAPTER XXX.
The King Went for Him.—A Royal Row.—Powerful Mellow.

CHAPTER XXXI.
Ominous Plans.—News from Jim.—Old Recollections.—A Sheep
Story.—Valuable Information.

CHAPTER XXXII.
Still and Sunday—like.—Mistaken Identity.—Up a Stump.—In a Dilemma.

CHAPTER XXXIII.
A Nigger Stealer.—Southern Hospitality.—A Pretty Long Blessing.—Tar and
Feathers.

CHAPTER XXXIV.
The Hut by the Ash Hopper.—Outrageous.—Climbing the Lightning
Rod.—Troubled with Witches.

CHAPTER XXXV.
Escaping Properly.—Dark Schemes.—Discrimination in Stealing.—A Deep
Hole.

CHAPTER XXXVI.
The Lightning Rod.—His Level Best.—A Bequest to Posterity.—A High
Figure.

CHAPTER XXXVII.
The Last Shirt.—Mooning Around.—Sailing Orders.—The Witch Pie.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
The Coat of Arms.—A Skilled Superintendent.—Unpleasant Glory.—A Tearful
Subject.

CHAPTER XXXIX.
Rats.—Lively Bed—fellows.—The Straw Dummy.

CHAPTER XL.
Fishing.—The Vigilance Committee.—A Lively Run.—Jim Advises a Doctor.

CHAPTER XLI.
The Doctor.—Uncle Silas.—Sister Hotchkiss.—Aunt Sally in Trouble.

CHAPTER XLII.
Tom Sawyer Wounded.—The Doctor’s Story.—Tom Confesses.—Aunt Polly
Arrives.—Hand Out Them Letters.

CHAPTER THE LAST.
Out of Bondage.—Paying the Captive.—Yours Truly, Huck Finn.




ILLUSTRATIONS.

 The Widows
 Moses and the “Bulrushers”
 Miss Watson
 Huck Stealing Away
 They Tip-toed Along
 Jim
 Tom Sawyer’s Band of Robbers
 Huck Creeps into his Window
 Miss Watson’s Lecture
 The Robbers Dispersed
 Rubbing the Lamp
 ! ! ! !
 Judge Thatcher surprised
 Jim Listening
 “Pap”
 Huck and his Father
 Reforming the Drunkard
 Falling from Grace
 Getting out of the Way
 Solid Comfort
 Thinking it Over
 Raising a Howl
 “Git Up”
 The Shanty
 Shooting the Pig
 Taking a Rest
 In the Woods
 Watching the Boat
 Discovering the Camp Fire
 Jim and the Ghost
 Misto Bradish’s Nigger
 Exploring the Cave
 In the Cave
 Jim sees a Dead Man
 They Found Eight Dollars
 Jim and the Snake
 Old Hank Bunker
 “A Fair Fit”
 “Come In”
 “Him and another Man”
 She puts up a Snack
 “Hump Yourself”
 On the Raft
 He sometimes Lifted a Chicken
 “Please don’t, Bill”
 “It ain’t Good Morals”
 “Oh! Lordy, Lordy!”
 In a Fix
 “Hello, What’s Up?”
 The Wreck
 We turned in and Slept
 Turning over the Truck
 Solomon and his Million Wives
 The story of “Sollermun”
 “We Would Sell the Raft”
 Among the Snags
 Asleep on the Raft
 “Something being Raftsman”
 “Boy, that’s a Lie”
 “Here I is, Huck”
 Climbing up the Bank
 “Who’s There?”
 “Buck”
 “It made Her look Spidery”
 “They got him out and emptied Him”
 The House
 Col. Grangerford
 Young Harney Shepherdson
 Miss Charlotte
 “And asked me if I Liked Her”
 “Behind the Wood-pile”
 Hiding Day-times
 “And Dogs a-Coming”
 “By rights I am a Duke!”
 “I am the Late Dauphin”
 Tail Piece
 On the Raft
 The King as Juliet
 “Courting on the Sly”
 “A Pirate for Thirty Years”
 Another little Job
 Practizing
 Hamlet’s Soliloquy
 “Gimme a Chaw”
 A Little Monthly Drunk
 The Death of Boggs
 Sherburn steps out
 A Dead Head
 He shed Seventeen Suits
 Tragedy
 Their Pockets Bulged
 Henry the Eighth in Boston Harbor
 Harmless
 Adolphus
 He fairly emptied that Young Fellow
 “Alas, our Poor Brother”
 “You Bet it is”
 Leaking
 Making up the “Deffisit”
 Going for him
 The Doctor
 The Bag of Money
 The Cubby
 Supper with the Hare-Lip
 Honest Injun
 The Duke looks under the Bed
 Huck takes the Money
 A Crack in the Dining-room Door
 The Undertaker
 “He had a Rat!”
 “Was you in my Room?”
 Jawing
 In Trouble
 Indignation
 How to Find Them
 He Wrote
 Hannah with the Mumps
 The Auction
 The True Brothers
 The Doctor leads Huck
 The Duke Wrote
 “Gentlemen, Gentlemen!”
 “Jim Lit Out”
 The King shakes Huck
 The Duke went for Him
 Spanish Moss
 “Who Nailed Him?”
 Thinking
 He gave him Ten Cents
 Striking for the Back Country
 Still and Sunday-like
 She hugged him tight
 “Who do you reckon it is?”
 “It was Tom Sawyer”
 “Mr. Archibald Nichols, I presume?”
 A pretty long Blessing
 Traveling By Rail
 Vittles
 A Simple Job
 Witches
 Getting Wood
 One of the Best Authorities
 The Breakfast-Horn
 Smouching the Knives
 Going down the Lightning-Rod
 Stealing spoons
 Tom advises a Witch Pie
 The Rubbage-Pile
 “Missus, dey’s a Sheet Gone”
 In a Tearing Way
 One of his Ancestors
 Jim’s Coat of Arms
 A Tough Job
 Buttons on their Tails
 Irrigation
 Keeping off Dull Times
 Sawdust Diet
 Trouble is Brewing
 Fishing
 Every one had a Gun
 Tom caught on a Splinter
 Jim advises a Doctor
 The Doctor
 Uncle Silas in Danger
 Old Mrs. Hotchkiss
 Aunt Sally talks to Huck
 Tom Sawyer wounded
 The Doctor speaks for Jim
 Tom rose square up in Bed
 “Hand out them Letters”
 Out of Bondage
 Tom’s Liberality
 Yours Truly




NOTICE.

Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be
prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished;
persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.

BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR
PER G. G., CHIEF OF ORDNANCE.




EXPLANATORY

In this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri negro
dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the
ordinary “Pike County” dialect; and four modified varieties of this
last. The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or by
guesswork; but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and
support of personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.

I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers
would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and
not succeeding.

THE AUTHOR.




HUCKLEBERRY FINN

Scene: The Mississippi Valley Time: Forty to fifty years ago




CHAPTER I.


You don’t know about me without you have read a book by the name of The
Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain’t no matter. That book was made
by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly. There was things
which he stretched, but mainly he told the truth. That is nothing. I
never seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt
Polly, or the widow, or maybe Mary. Aunt Polly—Tom’s Aunt Polly, she
is—and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book,
which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.

Now the way that the book winds up is this: Tom and me found the money
that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich. We got six
thousand dollars apiece—all gold. It was an awful sight of money when
it was piled up. Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at
interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year
round—more than a body could tell what to do with. The Widow Douglas
she took me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it was
rough living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regular
and decent the widow wa